SSH (Secure Shell)
------------------
SSH stands for secure shell, its a technic or a mechanism through which we can access the remote linux machine over the network.
	
There are multiple ways of connecting or accessing the linux operating system computers/machines over the network
1. Telnet
2. SSH

1. Telnet = telnet is one of the popular technic that was used before SSH in accessing the linux machines, but it is higly in-secure because all the data that is being exchanged between the client and remote linux computer is in plain-text format, so that any intruder can snip-in and steal the data during the transmission that makes it insecure.

	
2. SSH = SSH is a secure way of accessing the remote linux machines over the network and hence considered as an alternate to Telnet

SSH uses cryptogrphic technics in ensuring all the communication that takes place between the server/client is secured. One of the cryptographic techic is encryption/decryption.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. How to setup SSH access?

1.1 Install SSH Server on the Linux computer
In the linux operating system, open ssh server is a freely distributed as an packaged software distribution from linux repositories. So we can install the open ssh server using apt repositority tool
sudo apt update -y
sudo apt install -y openssh-server (it is by default installed/configured as systemctl initd service)

sudo systemctl status ssh = check the status of the ssh server

1.2 configuring the SSH Server
upon installing the openssh server, it creates an ssh server configuration file under /etc/ssh/sshd_config. it holds configuration settings pertaining to the openssh server
Few of the configuration options available in this file are:

1. portno, the default port on which the ssh server runs is 22, if we want we can change using this configuration file
port=22

2. The default authentication mechanism is passwordAuthentication. if we want we can disable this option explicitly using
passwordAuthentication Yes

upon changing the configuration settings in this file, we need to restart the ssh server to take the changes effective
sudo systemctl restart ssh


3. How to connect to the ssh server machine using password based authentication?
1. we need to have ssh client utility installed on the client computer inorder to connect to the ssh server machine
By default in ubuntu operation system, ssh-client is an pre-installed software, we can use it directly. Incase if we dont have ssh utility we can install using the below command

sudo apt update -y
sudo apt install -y ssh

2. since by default passwordAuthentication is enabled, we can connect to the server computer using the below command
ssh username@ip

This will prompt the password of the remote machine user, and upon succesful authentication you will be logged-in to the remote machine.


	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	